Big Data Generated By People,
how is it being used?
We listed a number of challenges for
using unstructured data
generated by human activities.
Now let's look at some of the emerging
technologies to tackle these challenges.
And see some examples that turn
unstructured data into valuable insights.
Although unstructured data specially
the kind generated by people has
a number of challenges.
The good news is that the business
culture of today is shifting
to tackle these challenges and
take full advantage of such data.
As it is often said,
a challenge is a perfect opportunity.
This is certainly the case for
big data and
these challenges have created
a tech industry of it's own.
This industry is mostly centered or
as we would say, layered or
stacked, around a few fundamental
open source big data frameworks.
Need big data tools
are designed from scratch
to manage unstructured information and
analyze it.
A majority of these tools
are based on an open source
big data framework called Hadoop.
Hadoop is designed to support
the processing of large data sets
in a distributed computing environment.
This definition would already give you a
hint that it tackles the first challenge.
Namely, the volume of
unstructured information.
Hadoop can handle big batches
of distributed information but
most often there's a need for
a real time processing of people generated
data like Twitter or Facebook updates.
Financial compliance monitoring is another
area of our central time processing is
needed, in particular
to reduce market data.
Social media and market data are two
types of what we call high velocity data.
Storm and
Spark are two other open source frameworks
that handle such real time
data generated at a fast rate.
Both Storm and
Spark can integrate data with any
database or data storage technology.
As we have emphasized
before unstructured data
does not have a relational data model so
it doesn't generally
fit into the traditional data warehouse
model based on relational databases.
Data warehouses are central repositories
of integrated data from one or
more sources.
The data that gets stored in warehouses,
gets extracted from multiple sources.
It gets transformed into
a common structured form and
it can slow that into
the central database for
use by workers creating analytical
reports throughout an enterprise.
This Exact Transform Load
process is commonly called ETL.
This approach was fairly standard in
enterprise data systems until recently.
As you probably noticed,
it is fairly static and
does not fit well with today's
dynamic big data world.
So how do today's businesses
get around this problem?
Many businesses today are using a hybrid
approach in which their smaller
structured data remains in
their relational databases, and
large unstructured datasets get stored
in NoSQL databases in the cloud.
NoSQL Data technologies are based
on non-relational concepts and
provide data storage options
typically on computing clouds
beyond the traditional relational
databases centered rate houses.
The main advantage of using
NoSQL solutions is their ability
to organize the data for
scalable access to fit the problem and
objectives pertaining to
how the data will be used.
For example, if the data will be used
in an analysis to find connections
between data sets, then the best
solution is a graph database.
Neo4j is an example of a graph database.
Graph networks is a topic that
the graph analytics course
later in this specialization,
we'll explain in depth.
If the data will be best accessed using
key value pairs like a search engine
scenario, the best solution is probably
a dedicated key value paired database.
Cassandra is an example
of a key value database.
These, and
many other types of NoSQL systems will
be explained further in course two.
So we are now confident that there
are emerging technologies for
individual challenges to manage
people generated unstructured data.
But how does one take advantage
of these to generate value?
As we saw big data must pass through a
series of steps before it generates value.
Namely data access, storage,
cleaning, and analysis.
One approach to solve this problem is
to run each stage as a different layer.
And use tools available to
fit the problem at hand, and
scale analytical solutions to big data.
In coming lectures, we will see
important tools that you can use
to solve your big data problems in
addition to the ones you have seen today.
Now let's take a step back and remind
ourselves what some of the value was.
Remember how companies can listen to the
real voice of customers using big data?
It is this type of generated
data that enabled it.
Sentiment analysis analyzes social
media and other data to find
whether people associate positively or
negatively with you business.
Organizations are utilizing
processing of personal data to
understand the true
preferences of their customers.
Now let's take a fun quiz to guess how
much Twitter data companies analyze
every day to measure sentiment
around their product.
The answer is 12 terabytes a day.
For comparison,
you would need to listen continuously for
two years to finish listening
to 1 terabyte of music.
Another example application area for
people generated data is customer
behavior modeling and prediction.
Amazon, Netflix and
a lot of other organizations,
use analytics to analyze
preferences of their customers.
Based on consumer behavior, organizations
suggest better products to customers,
and in turn have happier customers and
higher profits.
Another application area where the value
comes in the form of societal impact and
social welfare, is disaster management.
As you have seen in my wildfire example,
there are many types of big data that
can help with disaster response.
Data in the form of pictures and
tweets, helps facilitate
a collective response to disaster
situations, such as evacuations through
the safest route based on community
feedback through social media.
There are also networks that
turn crowd sourcing and
big data analytics into collective
disaster response tools.
The International Network
of Crisis Mappers,
also called Crisis Mappers Net,
is the largest of such networks and
includes an active international
community of volunteers.
Crisis Mappers use big data in the form
of aerial and satellite imagery,
participatory maps and
live Twitter updates to analyze
the data using geospatial platforms,
advanced visualization,
live simulation and computational and
statistical models.
Once analyzed the results get reported to
rapid response and humanitarian agencies
in the form of mobile and
web applications.
In 2015, right after the Nepal earthquake
Crises Mappers crowd source the analysis
of tweets and mainstream media to
rapidly access disaster damage and
needs and to identify where
humanitarian help is needed.
This example is amazing and shows how
big data can have huge impacts for
social welfare in times of need.
You can learn more about this
story at the following link.
As a summary, although there are
challenges in working with unstructured
people generated data at a scale and
speed that applications demand.
There are also emerging technologies and
solutions that are being
used by many applications to generate
value from the rich source of information.